been in a series of faith, glory to God.
And I believe that our faith is growing to where we're seeing more and more answered prayer, amen?
And I believe that and I believe that God wants to answer your prayers.
And I believe that your prayers are getting closer to me and answered as you walk in the faith of the Lord, amen?
And so we've been in the series and we've been focusing on a text.
And that's, Hebrews 11, 6, for it's impossible to please God for they that come to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.
Amen?
And so God is a rewarder of those who diligently
Seek Him.
And I know we got diligent seekers in the house today, amen?
And so we're talking about there's three spiritual components that makes faith work.
So faith has to have these three spiritual forces and we talked about a few weeks back that one of the spiritual forces that makes faith work is hope.
And I really believe this that the devil's after, if he can get our hope,
which means he gets our hope down.
In other words, hope is an earnest expectation of good to come.
So no matter what you're dealing with, no matter what, how hard it might be, you got to believe there's better days ahead.
You got to believe that regardless of how bad it might look in your equation, look at your neighbor and say, there's better days ahead.
Hey, you got to believe that.
I got to believe that.
And even if it's not too good down here, Jesus is coming back.
They've been some prophecy saying he's coming back this month.
I've been hearing some people saying, Jesus is coming back this month and we got a couple more days left, amen?
And I hope he does.
How many people are ready for Jesus to come back?
Amen.
I know you guys want to escape all your bills.
But glory to God.
But I want Jesus to come back because you know what?
The Apostle Paul says is much better to be in heaven to be down here.
Do you know it's much better in heaven?
You know, if you get to heaven, you don't want to come back to earth.
Heaven is a great place and we're all, say I'm heaven bound.
You are heaven bound.
And so, and so, and that's called the blessed hope.
The blessed hope is that Jesus is coming back before the devil tries to tear up this world, called the seven year of tribulation, amen?
And we're not going through that, amen?
Because we're gonna be dining with the master in heaven when all hell's breaking loose down here.
And then we'll come back and help Jesus set up his kingdom, amen?
And so hope is a vital part of faith.
And in Hebrews 11, one, it says, now faith is the substance of things
hope for and the evidence of things not seen.
I'm just doing a little recap this morning.
So hope is a vision of what you're believing God to do in your life.
And the promise of God's word should bring you vision, what God is going to do in your life.
Get a vision.
You gotta get a vision and a clear vision and faith will bring a clear vision
And the Word will produce that vision in your life.
You believe that today?
And so that's the reason why you want to get in the Word because the Word can paint the vision for you of healing, of prosperity, of whatever you might need God to do in your life.
The Word of God will paint a vision.
And whatever you think on, whatever you focus on, you will gravitate too.
I'm going to say again, whatever you're focusing on, and that's the reason why we want to get a clear vision
on focusing on what God wants to do in our life.
And it comes through us, you know, having speak in faith-filled words and having faith-filled actions.
And this causes our faith to come alive.
You know, there's a woman that had a vision of healing in Matthew 9, 20.
And she was the woman that had the issue of blood.
Remember that woman?
But she was sick, the Bible said, for 12 years, she went to all the physicians and she got worse.
You know, it's bad if you go to the doctors and you get worse.
So she got worse, and she spent all her money.
But I'll tell you that where medical science may not do it for you, where your finances might not get you there, Jesus will.
And I'm gonna say this, Jesus, somebody say, Jesus,
is my great physician.
You gotta believe that.
And I love this, so in Matthew 9.20, because I'm talking about this portion of the message, is that she got a vision of healing.
And you have to have a vision of healing.
And it says in Matthew 9.20, and Celia, a woman who had a flow of blood for 12 years, came from behind and touched the hem of his garment.
She said to herself, if I only may touch his garment,
I shall be made well."
There you go.
She said it to herself, if I could get to Jesus, if I could touch the hymn of His garment, I will be made well.
She actually, it was her faith that got her
well in Jesus' name.
It was her vision that if she could just touch the master, that she would be healed, glory to God.
And she just said it, and I don't know how many times she said it.
I just got to touch the hem of his garment.
If I could just touch the hem of his garment, I know I will be made well.
If I could just get to see life church, I know my faith will go to the next level.
If I could just get to the church, hallelujah.
And so she did that.
And Jesus turned around and when he saw her, he said, be a good cheer daughter.
Your faith has made you well.
And then woman was made well from that hour.
It was her vision.
It was her speaking it into existence.
And you're going to have to speak something if you're going to receive something.
I'm going to say this again, you're going to have to speak something
especially the Word of God if you're going to receive something.
And so the lady's Word created hope of vision for healing.
The vision completed her, compelled her to act as she acted and touched him of Jesus' garment.
She was made well.
I'm going to say this, your faith should cause you to act.
Your faith should not be dormant.
It should cause you to act.
So faith has to have a vision and vision created by faith-filled words, produce faith-filled actions that gets faith-filled results.
Did you receive that today?
Amen.
So we know another component of faith and we talked about this last week and if you weren't here, get that message because I believe it's gonna be a good one for you.
And that second component of faith is love.
Amen, love.
It's all about love.
It really is.
God doesn't just have love, God is love.
And you know what?
God is residing in each one of you.
Say God in me, the hope of glory.
So God is residing.
When you receive Jesus, you got God residing on the inside of you.
If you have God residing on the inside of you and God is love, guess what?
You got love residing on the inside of you.
But that love has to be unlocked.
In other words, you're gonna have to demonstrate love, amen?
And so we looked at this scripture last week, and this is Galatians 5.6, and I'm gonna read the Amplified.
It says, if we are in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything.
They were talking about the law and being circumcised, but it's not really doing the works of the law.
It's having faith in Jesus Christ and walking in the love of Jesus Christ.
Amen?
It's not about dotting all the eyes and crossing all the teas.
It's about walking in love towards our master.
Amen?
And walking in love towards others.
That's powerful.
And I like this.
He says, for if we are in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, only faith activated, express, and working through love.
So faith has to be activated and express
and it works through love.
I love that.
And so we gotta focus on that because you see, you can have faith, but if you don't have love, it won't give you any kind of spiritual blessings down here and it won't give you any spiritual blessings up there.
Do you know that God is looking at our lives and God is taking note on how we live our lives?
Are you aware of that?
And do you know there's gonna be a judgment day
And that judgment day is gonna be how we lived our lives down here.
And then God's gonna look at how we lived our lives.
And it may not be all based on what we do, but it's based on the heart behind what we do.
Oh, I'm going somewhere tonight or this morning.
It's the heart behind what we do, not just what we do.
Because you can do something good, but do it with a bad attitude.
Is that right?
And do you think that's gonna count in heaven?
If we're just doing things for God, but we've got an attitude in doing it.
No, we've got to have a positive attitude.
I believe that our attitude is everything.
It's attitude not aptitude, it determines the altitude, right?
So it's our attitude, and we've got to make sure, and that devil's constantly working on our attitude.
He's trying to get us upset, he's trying to get us upset.
taken back by what things are going on in our lives, but don't get upset.
God's working.
I like to say this, and the other day there was a cloud with a silver lining in it.
And I never saw, I took a picture of it and it was amazing.
That's the first time I've ever seen it.
Now I say a lot of times, there's always a silver lining in every cloud that the devil tries to put over our heads.
That the sun is shining through and will shine through that cloud, amen?
So matter of matter, what you're going through, God can bring some light on that subject.
Do you believe that today?
And so in 1 Corinthians 13, it says, though I speak with the tongues of men of angels, but not love, I become a sounding brass and a claim symbol.
And so I have gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have faith, so I could remove mountains, but have love, I am nothing.
And so if I pursue my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned, but I have not love, it profits me nothing.
That tells me that you can do a lot of things.
a lot of spiritual things.
You can move mountains.
You can speak with tongues like angels.
You can do amazing things, but if it's not motivated by love, the Apostle Paul says, we're nothing.
And so I'm going to say this, I want to be something.
Amen.
I don't want to, I don't want my works to count for nothing at the judgment seat of Christ.
I want everything that I do to be motivated by love.
Are you motivated by love?
That's the question I'm asking you this morning.
And I love this in Galatians, it says this way, just give us a little deeper insight on love.
It says, for you brethren have been called to liberty, in Galatians 5, 13, 14, for you brethren have been called to liberty only do not use your liberty as an opportunity for the flesh.
Notice that we're called to liberty
But it's not about serving ourselves.
Don't use your liberty just to serve yourself.
That's not where we're going.
But he says here, as an opportunity for an opportunity for the flesh, but through love, serve one another.
Oh, my Lord.
So you're saying to me, Pastor, that the love of God should compel me to serve people?
Yes.
We're called to serve one another.
And then it goes in verse 14, for all the laws fulfilled in one word, even this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Glory to God, amen.
And so we need to be loving our neighbors as ourselves.
Glory to God.
But if you don't love yourself, then your neighbor is in trouble, I always say.
So you're going to have to have, you're going to have to love yourself.
In other words, you got to appreciate what God has created.
You are a masterpiece.
Amen.
You're not a train wreck.
You are a mess, but you got to believe that.
You're a masterpiece in progress.
Amen.
We're in progress.
In other words, we're getting better.
In other words, God's the potter.
We're the clay.
He's making us into a beautiful vase, amen, or vos.
However you wanna say it, amen?
And so, he's making us, amen?
And so I love that.
So if we're gonna walk in love, and I didn't mention this last week, but we're gonna have to walk in the golden rule.
Has anybody ever heard of the golden rule?
James calls it the royal law.
So it's either the golden rule or the royal, what is it, Pastor?
It's both.
It's the golden rule and the royal law.
And it's coined the golden rule.
And at Matthew 712, Jesus is speaking, it's in red.
It says, therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law of the prophets.
In other words, do unto others as you would have people do unto you.
So however you want people to treat you, we should treat them likewise.
Is that right?
Amen, that's when you're behind that slow person, you give a nice honk.
Amen, you just don't, you don't lay it on there.
Or some of you are the ones that lay it on there.
No, you give a nice beep beep, you know, wake up, you know, you do a nice, you try to treat people the way you wanna be treated.
Is that right?
Amen, that's, and this is interesting.
Jesus said, this is the law of the prophets.
So it's loving God and loving people, and so I love that.
So my subtitle, my sermon, and what I want to focus on this morning is a subject that's not really easy for most people to swallow.
It's a subject that we don't even really want to talk about, but it's a key to Bible faith
And this is what I'm gonna focus on.
It's patience.
Patience, how many people have patience out here?
How many people could stand and walk in a little bit more patience?
Let me put it that way.
This message, it may not be for you.
You might be the most laid back person.
Nothing bothers you.
Everything rolls off your back like,
water off a duck's back, right?
Nothing bothers you.
You're easy going.
How many people are easy going out here, amen?
Glory to God.
We got to be easy going.
But you don't want to be sweating the small stuff.
In other words, when we get impatient, we're sweating every little thing.
Amen, I mean, I'm just last night, you know, my dog, my dog, my dog, that dog, you know,
He needs to be trained better, amen?
And the dog was whining.
I was wondering why he's whining.
I was in my room.
And then all of a sudden he leaves my room and there's do-do on my floor.
And I'm studying and I'm trying to do my studying.
I looked at it and I'm focused on patience.
Sometimes you, you know, okay, I just step back, amen, and just say, okay, you know,
And I cleaned it up, glory to God.
And then last night, I'm focused on patience.
And I had my special chips that I eat with my sandwiches, amen?
And I left it on a table and Christian loves to dump out chips all over the table.
And then my favorite chips dumped out all over the table.
Patience.
What I'm talking about?
The devil will hit you with little things
I just said, okay, well, the bag was half full anyway, just by holding the bag.
But these are just little things, but it's the little things that will make things big.
In other words, if we don't watch the little things in our life, and if we're going off kilter, if we're losing our minds off the little things, what will happen when the big things come in our life?
Then we will really be in trouble, right?
So we don't really want to lose our minds on the little things.
Amen?
And I like this in Hebrew 6, 11 to 12.
This is our main verse this morning on patience.
And it says here, and we desire that each one of you, this Hebrew 6, 11 to 12, 11 to 12.
And we desire that each one of you show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope until the end.
So this is saying to me is that
We want to be diligent to the very end.
In other words, you can say patience is perseverance.
So he starts off, and I believe Apostle Paul wrote Hebrews, and he says it's our desire for each one, we want to maintain the same diligence as when we got saved as the last day we're on earth.
Are you maintaining that same diligence?
Amen.
Are you staying fired up for Jesus?
Are you not backing up, backing down, backing off, you're pressing in?
And so he says that then first 12 is where I want to focus on that you do not become sluggish or lazy or despondent but imitate those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
So we can get to a point where we become sluggish in our faith where we almost give up on what we're believing God to do in our life.
Have you ever felt like giving up?
Have you ever felt like throwing in the towel?
saying, God, I don't know if it's going to ever work out.
Have you ever felt like that?
Sometimes we get these feelings that things aren't going to move forward.
But I'm going to say this, God is working, even if we don't see Him working, as long as we keep our faith turned on.
Say, my faith is turned on.
So we gotta believe that we can't get lazy, we can't get slack, we can't get sluggish, amen?
With diligence, we gotta press in to believe that God is working in our lives, amen?
So if we're gonna receive what we're believing God for, it's gonna be a process, sometimes it's gonna be a process of time for it to come to pass.
I'm gonna say this, the bigger you're believing God for, a lot of times the longer it's gonna wait.
I would say, again, the bigger you're believing God for, sometimes the longer you may have to wait.
There's a process.
Look at your neighbor say, there's a process.
So we are in a process in our salvation.
See, you're not perfect yet.
Have you figured that out yet?
You're in a process of salvation.
In other words, you're in a process of getting better.
You are in a process of becoming more like Jesus, but we're not there yet.
I know some of you are really close, but we're not there yet, but we're going to be there, amen?
I love that.
And so we have to go through the process.
Dropping down to Hebrews 6, 13, and 15, talking about Abraham, it says, for when God made a promise to Abraham,
because he could not square by no one greater.
This is God.
He swore by himself saying, surely blessing, I will bless you.
And multiplying, I will multiply you.
So after he had, talking about Abraham, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
Think about that.
So it wasn't just, when God spoke to him and said, I'm gonna make you a father
of many nations, and I'm going to grow your family like the stars in heaven.
It took a process of time for it to come to pass.
Now, I don't know why it has to take a process.
For us, it's a long time.
For God, it's the short amount of time.
Amen?
For God, a thousand years.
For us, it's like a day to God.
So for God, it's quick, but for us, it can be a process.
And it's gonna be a process if we're gonna see God do something big in our life.
Amen.
And so patience and endurance is the key to seeing God's promise work in our lives.
What is a good definition of patience?
Have you ever looked up the word patience?
Probably not.
Because you don't wanna focus on it.
But patience, the capacity to accept or tolerate delay, trouble or suffering without getting angry or upset.
It's the capacity.
Has anybody lost their temper?
This week, amen?
Have you ever lost your temper?
Let's put it that way.
Anybody have a short fuse out there, amen?
Glory to God.
We sometimes lose our temper.
We get to a point where I have enough.
All I can't stand, I can't stand like Popeye.
All I can't stand, I can't stand no more.
You know, he's getting beat up by Bluto and he has to pull out the spinach, right?
So he can not, Bluto's block off.
Anybody ever used to watch Popeye out here, amen?
All I can't stand, and Popeye got to the point where that was it.
And I'm telling you, sometimes we have our breaking points.
Is that true?
Sometimes we can have our breaking points.
But you know what?
God's love is residing in you.
And if God's love is residing in you, the first key to love is, in the love chapter, love is patient and love is kind.
Say I'm patient and kind.
So patience has the capacity to accept or tolerate delay, trouble, or suffering without getting angry or upset.
So the process of waiting on the promise will be manifested when we exercise the art of patience.
We know that patience isn't working our lives when we are upset or frustrated with the process.
So I'm going to say this, don't get upset with the process.
there's gonna be a process.
In anything, they say Rome wasn't built in a day.
It took time.
Any great thing takes time to build.
And a great life takes time to build.
A great life doesn't just happen overnight.
It takes time.
So if you wanna give, I wanna give you some keys to walking in patients.
How many people would like you to have some keys to walking in patients?
Glory to God.
And it's out of this verse here in James 1, 19.
So if you're dealing with frustration, if you're dealing with irritation, if you're dealing with that type of emotions in your life right now, then this message is for you, glory to God.
And so you may say, I'm not dealing with that.
Wait, you will pretty soon because it will all come to us.
The storms of life comes to all of us.
And there's gonna be times where our faith is gonna be tested and tried.
And I'm not prophesying over you on this, but it will happen.
Our faith will be tried at times in our life, amen.
And in James 1 19 and 20, it says, so then my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce
the righteousness of God.
That's for all you hotheads out there.
The wrath of man does not produce, and I'm talking to myself.
Amen?
That's me.
The wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God.
So I want, I want to break down this scripture today and focus on patience and patient people learn to hear from God.
They've learned to wait on God, to hear from God before they act.
In other words, when something comes to you, are you waiting on the Lord to know how to respond to that situation?
Or are you just spurting out, you know, half upset and just laying it out there?
No, you need to learn, look at your names, they learn to wait on the Lord.
And so a word from God is a key to maintaining your peace
in the process of waiting for God's promise to come in your life, a word from God.
We need a word from God in that place where we don't know what to do.
We're dealing with frustration.
We're dealing with impatience.
We're dealing with this stuff.
And at that time, we need a word from God.
I like what it says in a backup or Habakkuk, two, one.
It says, I will stand my watch
and set myself on the rampart.
And I watch to see what He will say to me, the rampart is the highest place.
It's the tower.
And so the person saying here, I'll stand my watch and set myself on the highest place.
That's about getting in prayer.
And prayer will take you to heights.
in the heavenly places.
And so you wanna get into prayer or take through the high places.
And he says, and he says here, I watch to see what he will say to me and what I will answer when I am corrected, amen?
So there might be some areas in our life where God might need to adjust us.
Have you ever needed to be adjusted?
Has your attitude ever needed to be adjusted?
They needed an adjustment every once in a while.
And then he says here, did the Lord answer me and said to me, write the vision and make it plain on tablets that he may run who reads it.
For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it will speak and it will not lie, though it terries.
Notice he's talking about a vision.
And he's saying, though, even though you're believing God for some things, and you haven't seen it come to pass yet, and it seems to be terrying, he says here, though it terries, wait for it, wait for it, because it will surely come to pass.
So here, as long as God gives you the word on it,
And what a lot of times we need to do is write that word down.
And so when we're getting into a place where we're getting upset about the circumstance, we need to take that word and read it and focus on, yes, God said this to me, it will surely come to pass, wait on it.
Amen.
Somebody say I'm a good waiter.
You're good at waiting.
on God.
Jesus was confronted, and I'm going to say this, you're going to be confronted at times in your life where you don't know how to respond to a circumstance in a situation.
And you're going to need that where even Jesus himself had to learn to wait on God the Father before he spoke something.
And in John 8, 211 says, now early in the morning,
Jesus, he came, Jesus again to the temple and all the people came to him and he sat down and taught them, then describes the affairs.
He's brought to him a woman caught in adultery.
And when they had set her in the midst, they said to him, teacher, this woman was caught in adultery in the very act.
Now Moses in the law commands us that such should be stoned.
But what do you say?
This, they said, testing him that they might have something in which to accuse him.
Because Jesus was coming in and Jesus was talking about, yes, obedience to God's word, but he was also talking about the mercy of the Lord.
And so what they were trying to do was get him trapped.
But Jesus stooped down and rode on the ground with his finger as though he did not hear.
Think about that.
They gave him a question, they posed a serious question
This woman's life was at stake and he just sat down and started dueling on the ground.
Think about that.
And he acted like he didn't even hear them.
What was he doing?
He was waiting on the Lord.
He was waiting on how to respond.
Sometimes when something happens to us and it hits us right in the face, the best thing we can do is scribble on the ground.
Metaphorically, of course.
is to step back and wait on the Lord.
And so he acted, he's not here.
So when they continued asking him, notice that, they continued asking him, he raised himself up and said to them, he who's without sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first.
And again, he stooped down and rode on the ground.
This is interesting because really I believe he gave them the word back to them.
He knew
that if somebody threw that stone, they were claiming to be perfect, and if they claim to be perfect, they could be stone too.
So he, that would have been a double jeopardy.
Amen.
And so this is interesting that he stooped back down, wrote on God, because I believe that God will give us truth, but he doesn't know how we're gonna respond to that truth.
I don't know if Jesus knew what they were gonna really do, but they responded to the truth in each one from the,
Eldest to the youngest, drop their stones.
And then Jesus stands up and says, woman, is there any more accusers?
Does anybody accuse you?
And she looked around and said, no, Lord, not, excuse me.
He said, neither do I.
Go and sin, no more.
That's the mercy of God.
Amen.
And God is merciful.
But you know what, Jesus, He had to step back, set back,
to come back with the right words, amen?
So that's what we need to do.
Number two, patience people learn to control their words.
Quickly here, slow to speak, amen.
We learn to control words.
Our words about our situation will put us over or pull us under.
The devil is constantly trying to get us to speak words of doubt, unbelief, anger in the waiting room of life.
In Proverbs 1821, it says death and life are in the power of tongue and those who love it will eat its fruit.
So we know this that death and life are in the power of the tongue, amen?
And then I love what it says in Proverbs 1820, a man's stomach shall be satisfied from the fruit of his mouth, from the produce of his lips, he shall be filled.
That's powerful.
So your words will put you over or your words will put you under.
I'm gonna say it again, your words will cause you to go over or your words will cause you to go under.
And he's saying here that the fruit of our mouth will produce awesome things in our lives.
I like what it says in the King James, a man's belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth and with the increase of his lips he shall be filled.
Are your lips speaking increase or decrease?
Are you saying out of your mouth it's getting worse?
or are you saying out of your mouth it's getting better?
What are you saying out of your mouth?
And I'm gonna choose to say it's getting better even though it might look like it's getting worse.
Amen.
And so I love that, so I love that.
And he says here, your lips, I'm gonna say this, your lips must speak increase all the time.
The increase of your lips shall be filled.
Somebody say this, my God shall supply all my needs.
according to his riches in glory, in Christ Jesus.
I love that.
That's speaking increase.
You need to learn to speak increase in your life, not decrease.
I like what the Amplified says, and my God will liberally supply, fill until full, your every need, according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus.
I love that.
Fill in full, your every need.
In other words, you don't lack anything
in Christ.
What did Jesus have to say about words?
He says this, he says in Matthew 1235, a good man out of a good treasure of his heart brings forth good things and an evil man out of an evil treasure brings forth evil things.
So whatever you've been thinking on, whatever you've been meditating on will eventually get into your heart.
That's why you want to think on the right things.
You don't want to think on the negative things of life, amen?
And because what gets into your heart will eventually, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.
So what do we wanna do?
If you're meditating on the good word of God, and you're putting that good word of God on the inside of you, guess what happens when pressure comes out?
When pressure comes to you, then God's word will come out of you.
When pressures come to you, and you've been meditating on the word of God,
Then the word of God will come out.
Do you believe that today?
Because you can determine what's in your heart.
Amen?
And I want to make sure good things are in my heart.
Then he says here in Matthew 36, 12, 36, but I say to you, every idle word men may speak, they will give an account on the day of judgment.
So our idle words are inoperative words.
We'll give a day, we will give an account for by your words, you'll be justified and by your words, you will be condemned.
So Jesus is talking, how powerful your words are.
And he's saying that our words are being weighed out.
What is the greatest words that you can ever speak in this life?
The greatest words you can ever, are you ready for this?
That you can speak in this life is to confess the Lordship of Jesus Christ.
That's the greatest thing that you can ever confess in this life is that Jesus
is Lord and to confess it, not just to yourself, but confess it in front of others.
That's the greatest thing we should be confessing.
In other words, not only that Jesus is the Lord of our life, he's the Lord of everything in our lives.
He's the Lord over our relationships.
He's the Lord over our finances.
He's the Lord over our health.
He's Lord.
And if you start declaring Jesus,
is Lord.
I'm telling you, God's going to do amazing things.
In Matthew 10, 32 says, therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him, will I confess before my Father in heaven.
In other words, Jesus echoes your words to the Father, glory to God.
So Jesus is representing us in heaven to the heavenly Father.
And I'm going to keep confessing the Lordship of Jesus Christ, and I'm proud of it.
I'm not ashamed of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
It's the power and the salvation to all men, to them that believe.
Amen?
And so you need it to be confessing the Lordship of Jesus Christ every day in your lives.
And he's Lord over every part of your lives.
Say amen on that.
And number three, patient people learn to control their anger.
Slow to anger.
If you're going to be patient, you're going to learn to control your anger.
I love this in Proverbs, 1911.
A person's wisdom.
Think about that.
How many people want to walk in wisdom out here?
Amen.
Do you know the Holy Spirit's wisdom?
The Holy Spirit will give you wisdom.
And as a person, wisdom yields to patience.
It is one's glory to overlook and offense.
Think about that.
So it's a person's wisdom yields the patient's one's glory to overlooking the fence.
Proverbs 15, 18 says this way, a hot temper person stirs up conflict.
But the one who is patient calms the quarrel.
In other words, a soft answer, when somebody's getting up in your grill, amen, when they're getting in your face, the best thing you can do is give them a soft answer, not tit for tat.
If they yell at you, you yell back at them.
No, the best thing is get a soft answer.
A soft answer will turn away people's wrath.
Do you believe that today?
I love this in Proverbs 1.
A gentle, that's what I just said.
A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
Ephesians 4, 26, do not be angry.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Be angry and do not sin.
Do not let the sun go down on your wrath.
So we don't want to be angry people.
and we don't want to be walking around with a chip on our shoulder.
You know, wait for somebody to step on our toes so we can let them have it.
That's not the type of people God's raising up in Exceed Life Church.
Glory to God.
And then he says Ephesians 29, let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification that may impart grace to the hear.
So when you're upset, normally there's not grace words coming out of your mouth.
Is that true?
When you're upset, knowing there's mean words coming out, but he says, when we speak, talking about the power of our words, let our words be words that will edify and that will impart grace to the hearers.
So our words should always be uplifting, not bringing people down, but uplifting people.
Ephesians 4.30 says this way, and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed by the day of redemption.
So you can grieve God.
by the words that you speak, amen?
But I believe not only can you grieve God, but you can really make God happy.
In other words, by the right words that we say in building people up.
Then he says in Ephesus 4, 31, 32, let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice.
Well, that's a lot.
and be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiven one another, even as God in Christ has forgave you.
Us yielding the anger too much can hinder God's perfect plan in our lives.
Now Moses was a man used of God mildly.
How many people know about Moses?
And if you know about Moses, X is 211.
Moses saw somebody disrespecting or abusing one of his fellow
Hebrews, brothers.
And Moses knew that he was a true Hebrew.
He wasn't an Egyptian.
And one of the soldiers was abusing and he killed that soldier.
And I believe he got angry.
And that anger caused him to kill that soldier.
And what happened to Moses?
He had to flee Egypt and go on a backside of a mountain for 40 years, amen?
So Moses had to do that.
His anger got him kicked out of Egypt.
And then we know that God in Exodus in Numbers 27 through 12, the Lord tells Moses, I want you to get water out of the rock.
And I'm paraphrasing.
And I want you to speak to the rock.
And this is God's speaker the most.
I want you to speak to the rock and water will come out.
And then Moses, the people were trying to get water and they were complaining.
And Moses said, must I get water out of this rock?
You rebels and called them rebels.
Instead of Moses speaking to the rock, Moses smoked the rock.
He did that for the first time to get water.
He smoked the rock with the rod.
And the water came out.
God still honored him.
But because he disrespected God,
God didn't allow him to go into the promised land, to bring the children of Israel into the promised land.
Think about that.
So what am I'm saying?
I'm saying, if you don't get control of your anger, it could hurt the perfect plan of God in your life.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm saying, because God wants you blessed, he wants you prosperous, he wants you on the next level of faith, but if you don't get control of your anger, it can hinder the best plans that God has in your life.
Amen.
My last key is if you're going to walk in patience you must allow joy to operate in your life.
Let me go to James 1 and 2 as we close down this service.
My brother encountered all joy when you fall into various trials known that the testing of your faith produces patience.
But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete lacking nothing.
The testing of our faith
is when we are believing God for a breakthrough and we haven't seen it yet.
That can be a testing of our faith, amen?
And a testing of our faith brings us to a place where we may be frustrated and that frustration should bring us to a place where we're on our knees seeking God.
Whenever you get frustrated with your circumstance, with the situations, whenever the trial comes, it should bring us to a place
where we are seeking God and that place brings us into patiently waiting on the Lord.
And you could say another word for patience is rest.
Oh, I'm going somewhere this morning.
Another, if you can learn to rest, you're gonna be patient.
In other words, cast your cares on the Lord for He cares for you.
Learn to walk in rest.
Learn to not let the devil get you upset or uptight
or ticked off, don't let the devil get you that way.
Resting in God is akin to trusting God, and no matter what we're facing, we can trust God.
In Psalms three, seven, five, it says, commit your way to Lord, trust also in Him and Him, and He shall bring it to pass.
So patience comes about through testing trials in our life.
The testing trials brings us to our knees, it brings us to a place
where we're learning to be patient, and then when we learn to be patient and we stay in patience, we will see the promise come to pass in our lives.
Amen?
To recap, patient people learn to hear and wait on God.
Patient people learn to control their words.
Patient people learn to control their anger.
Patient people worship God in the middle of their test and trials and learn to rest in God in the promises of God.
When you take these keys, I believe you'll learn to walk in the patience of God and you'll receive all that God has for you.
Did you receive it this morning?
Let's bow our heads in prayer.
Father, I thank you for your mercies and your goodness.
I thank you, Father, for those that are in the audience, those that are listening and watching.
Perhaps you've never made a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ.
The greatest words you can ever speak is the confession that Jesus is Lord.
And so if you've never made that confession of your faith, I want to invite you to do that today.
I want you to pray this simple prayer after me and mean your heart if you're ready to make Jesus, Lord of your life.
Just say this and just say it out loud and say, Dear God, I believe
Jesus died on the cross for my sins.
I believe Jesus was raised in the dead to save me.
Jesus, I receive you as my Lord and Savior.
Thank you for saving me.
And Heavenly Father, fill me with your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name.
If you prayed that for the first time, we believe you got born again.
Stay connected with the Sea Life Church online, but if you're here locally and you don't have a church home, come
Be a part of a sea life church.
We love for you to be a part of it.
If you're not here locally, find a good church home that will help you grow in faith so that you can be all that God has called you to be.